Verb+s Is Looking for Love: Towards a Meaningful Narrativization of Abstract Content
Serena Zampolli
Università degli Studi di Genova
serena.zampolli@edu.unige.it
Abstract. This paper discusses the development of a process to narrativize abstract content in the context of English taught as a foreign language, focusing on the teaching of grammar rules which are problematic for Italian learners. It argues that content in story-form is better processed by the human brain compared to non-narrative content, and highlights how the discussion on narrativization of abstract content is still open. Then it describes the challenges to the development of such process, explains a narrativization proposal, and illustrates its development, structure and application. Finally, it presents preliminary results of a first exploratory application in a school context, showing that the process is clear and direct enough to be applied successfully by secondary school students. This process could be the first step towards a new representation of abstract knowledge and the automated creation of metaphorical stories. 
Keywords: Language Learning; Narrative Learning; Storytelling; Narrativization; Grammar.

1 	Introduction
This paper discusses the development of a process to narrativize abstract content in order to facilitate its understanding and memorization. It was developed and it is now being studied in the context of foreign language teaching. The target abstract concepts chosen for the experimentation are grammar rules often misused by Italian learners who speak English as a Foreign Language [22]. However, this process is not intended to be applied only to foreign grammar rules, but to other fields as well: it wants to be a first step towards a new representation of any abstract content. Once accomplished and widely tested, this process could constitute the basis for the creation of automated procedures to narrativize abstract content. 
The proposed process can generate stories that can be presented in various forms (written, oral, multimedia). The form chosen for this project is that of short narrative videos, which means stories with both a verbal and a visual component. Section 2 of this paper explains the reason behind this choice, providing evidences supporting the idea that visualization and narrativization can ease understanding and memorization of abstract concepts. Section 3 is dedicated to the challenges faced while developing the proposed process, which is then described in Section 4. Section 5 presents preliminary results of a first exploratory application in a school context, and reflects on needed future research.  
2 	Theoretical Framework
Our memories can be of two different types: episodic/autobiographical and semantic. [16] The first can be recalled willingly as narrative scenes, while the latter are “embedded not in narrative scenes but in a web of associations” [5]. Abstract concepts are filed as semantic memories, not framed into story-form, and they need to be constantly reinforced in order not to be lost [11] [12]. Grammar rules belonging to a foreign language are abstract concepts and therefore need constant reinforcement [6] but there might not be opportunities for this to happen. This might be the reason why Italians who speak English as a Foreign Language struggle with the retrieval of many English grammar rules (even if they know them) and fail to apply them correctly while speaking.
The struggle might be overcame if the form of the information is changed: if the grammar rules are presented not as abstract concepts but as stories, they are no longer stored in the semantic memory but in the episodic memory. This makes it possible to consciously retrieve them, independently of the amount of reinforcement.
This is not the only reason favouring a narrative input over a non-narrative one. Our brain is hardwired to rely on stories and stories have played a crucial role in the development of our species [9]. The structure of story is innate in our minds to the point that we automatically use story elements, story relationships, story architecture to understand and to make sense of real-world events [3]. Furthermore, we also organize, sort, understand, relate and file experience into memory in story-form [15]. It seems therefore logical that providing the brain with a narrative input means providing it with the information shaped into the form that is the easiest for it to process. 
Narrative is not the only key element in terms of memorization: our brain also strongly relies on visuals. Professional mnemonists enhance their memory by using an ancient technique called “method of loci” (the most ancient form of “memory palace” or “memory theatre”): they consciously convert the information they are asked to memorize into images, and distribute those images along familiar spatial journeys. This technique takes advantage of human visual and spatial memories, and can be learned by everybody. It makes abstract concepts concrete, and therefore memorable. It allows us to create any kind of image: the more unique they are, the more memorable. They also do not need to be still: if they are animated they are more effective [8]. 
Stories have a strong link with visualization: even in a basic textual form, they have the power to create mental images. Their sensory details create images that allow trans-domain neural mapping within the mind of the story receiver [9]. This result can be argued to be even more at hand if the story is told not only via words, but using multimedia artifacts. For all these reasons, narrative videos were selected as the final artifacts to embody the stories created with the proposed process.
Despite the consistent amount of research studies about the advantages of the narrative form, stories are still not used much in education when it comes to the teaching of abstract concepts. They are used to frame information and make it more appealing, but a process to narrativize abstract content effectively is still needed. Several attempts have been made (see, e.g., [17]; [4] for mathematics; [18] for biosciences), but the question is still open, especially in relation with grammar learning. This paper is an attempt towards that result.
3	Challenges
The first challenge is the lack of a shared definition of “story” all scholars agree on. However, there are features they all identify as structural [7]: the presence of events [14], and the presence of characters. Just to cite a well-known and relevant example, Bruner [2] defines narrative as “a unique sequence of events, mental states, happenings involving human beings as characters or actors”. Characters can be human, but they can also be animals or objects who are given agency by being enabled to behave human-like. 
In a story, the visible part is made of characters and settings, and here lies the second challenge: if we want the story to translate the grammar rules, it means we need to make the abstract concepts visible. The best way to achieve this is by using metaphors. Metaphors allow the coding from an abstract domain (feelings, like love) to a concrete domain (e.g., a beautiful rose, a thorny rose). Moreover, they allow us to get acquainted with a new concept through one that is already known [10]. This translates into the process as the task of identifying the defining characteristics of the abstract elements involved and then find a human creature, an animal, an object, which can embody them. We will see this in detail in Section 3.1. We will also see how insights from narratology and performative storytelling play a relevant role in defining this process.
The last challenge was that of finding a process which could be applied to any grammar rule. The investigation related to this point is still ongoing.

4	A proposal for narrativizing abstract concepts

The subject matter of this study is the group of common mistakes Italians make when speaking English as a foreign language [19]. The rules related to those mistakes seem hard to retrieve and apply, and it can be argued that the traditional textual form used to present them might not be effective. Memorization and learning might be facilitated by transforming them in a form that is easier for the brain to process: visual story-form. Grammar rules, however, are abstract concepts and can not be easily turned into stories. Herein lies the main challenge of this research. 
At this stage, the proposed narrativization technique aims at being used by learners as a tool to help them memorize, retain, retrieve and then apply grammar rules, until the linguistic process is automatized by the brain and no longer needs memory aids. 
Section 4.1 explains the development of the proposed narrativization process so far, and Section 4.2 illustrates its structure and application. 

4.1 Development of the Narrativization Process

The first grammar rule transformed into a story was the addition of the suffix -s to verbs whose subject is a third person singular, as in the construction “She walks to the store”. The developed story is titled “Speed Dating” and tells of a guy, Verb+s, who takes part in a speed date event, meeting several possible partners (the pronouns). Things are not going well, until he meets She, a girl with whom he amiably converses. When the date event is over, Verb+s decides to ask She if they can see each other again. She agrees enthusiastically and introduces Verb+s to her friends: a guy, He, holding a stuffed animal named ‘It’. The story ends with the four happily together.
This first attempt envisaged a process made of two phases. In the first phase, knowing that a story needs characters, the linguistic elements involved in the rule were made visual: they were identified and characterized in accord with their meaning as language items, which means they were shaped into human characters that behave consistently with the personality features. For example, the pronoun “I” was characterized as egocentric and constantly taking selfies. The second step, knowing that at least one event is needed, was identifying a key action able to encode the relation among characters according to the considered grammar rule. In our example, Verb+s fits only with third singular pronouns, so it was necessary to find an action or situation where one person selects one other person by choosing among many. The situation chosen was a speed date, but many others are possible This means that different stories can be created for the same rule, allowing for this process to be creative. 
This first version of the process aimed at creating a core (made of characters and one key action), and developed the story around it. When it was tested on other rules, it proved not to always be productive: it created characters and put them in relation through a key action, but the result was a static image where nothing really happened. Something was not working, and it was necessary to reconsider it. In order to do so, we went back to narratology.
According to Narratology, a story is made of one or more Events, and each Event is the transition between two States-of-things, differentiated by at least one of their features [20]. The problem with this first version of the process was that it created only one State-of-things, and a second one was that  something needed to happen between states. 
The narratological concept of State-of-things can be difficult to grasp for non specialists, while our aim was to design a process that everybody could easily learn and apply. Performative storytelling provided inspiration on how to overcome this obstacle. Contemporary performative storytellers active in the cultural movement called “Storytelling Revival” have several, sometimes hundreds, of stories in their repertoire and tell them improvising the words when they perform in front of an audience [13]. They memorize stories not as words, but as images: each tale corresponds to a small amount of very detailed canvas, which serve as memory anchors. The storyteller can recall the sequence of images related to a specific story and weave the narration out of it on the spot, making every performance unique. 
Inspired by this, the idea of the State-of-things was kept as a reference but it was decided to focus on the creation of images, not States, and call them scenes. 
So far, the process had proved fit to create one Scene: one image which was a visualization of the rule. This image needed to be at the end of the story, the final image that sticks with the learner. 
In order to have a story, a second Scene was needed, and this image would constitute the beginning. Every story needs a conflict (i.e., an issue to be resolved), hence the beginning Scene needed to be different from the final one and somehow include the germ of a conflict. In the next section we see how all these elements have been included in the proposed narrativization process.

4.2 Scheme of the Narrativization Process 

The first version of the narrativization process is maintained, but it does not constitute the whole process, only its first step.  Therefore, the first thing that needs to be done is to visualize the grammar rule and turn it into an image. We do so by identifying the linguistic elements which are part of the rule because they will become our characters. For example, in “Speed Dating”, the linguistic elements involved are Verb+s and the pronouns I, You singular, He, She, It, We, You plural, and They. 
Second, we must identify what traits those elements have, so that we can shape the appearance and the personality of the correspondent characters. To do so, it is useful to brainstorm and write a list of adjectives for each element, then choose two or three and use them to characterize a character which can embody that element. We need also to identify one key action that puts the characters in relation with each other and tis apt to embody the grammar rule we are working on (see Sect. 4.1). 
The characters do not need to be human, but can be animals, objects, or anything else. However, they need to be granted agency, a fundamental trait of story characters.
We can characterize our elements in many ways. For example, if there are linguistic elements which share the same category, so can do their characters. In “Speed Dating” all pronouns are female (with the exception of You, genderless), while Verb+s is male.
The result is a static image we call landing image, encompassing how many details we want (as long as they are functional to the delivering of the rule), and which is a visual metaphor of the rule. In the “Speed Dating” example, the final image shows Verb+s in the sole company of She, He, It.
The second phase consists of creating another scene which will serve as beginning of the story, what we call starting image. We have two options. 
A first option is that of starting the story with an empty space, the chaos at the beginning of creation stories: all the elements are present but not in the correct order, and not yet connected. In this case, the starting image and the landing image differ because in the latter the characters are acting according to the grammar rule, which means performing the key action (in the case of “Speed Dating”, Verb+s selecting only She, He, It to be with him), whilst in the initial one they have yet to meet and/or find the right thing to do. A second option is explained below.
The third phase consists in connecting the two images. In order to go from the starting image to the landing one, something needs to happen. This implies that the characters are to be involved into actions. The process is represented in the scheme (Fig.1).


Fig. 1. A scheme of the proposed narrativization process

It is important not to introduce characters which are not related to the rule, in order to avoid distraction and confusion. These stories do not need to be very long: the sharper they are, the more effective. The best choice is to make them ironic or to present unusual situations, providing the learners with a memorable input. 
As mentioned before, conflict and unexpected situations are essential elements of stories, that contribute to make them  meaningful and interesting [3]. If the grammar rule we are working on is associated with a mistake commonly made by foreign learners, this gives us the opportunity to address the issue by incorporating the mistake into our story. This is the second option we mentioned before; it consists in starting the story with the same image of the landing, creating a conflict, and then solving the problem. In order to do so, we need to apply the same visualization process  to the elements of the mistake, also turning it into a character. Then, we need to identify which disruptive action such character/mistake performs, causing some problem, and turn that into the conflict of the story.  In this case, we use the word “conflict” not necessarily as a synonym of “battle”, but as it is used in Narratology, that is, in the sense of “competition”: a competition which can have only one winner.


Fig. 2. Scheme of the narrativization process incorporating the common mistake associated with the target grammar rule

This is an example. In English the active form of the Present Perfect always requires the auxiliary verb “to have” combined with a Past Participle. The corresponding Italian tense can use either “to have” or “to be” as auxiliary, and so Italians tend to use both auxiliaries in English, mimicking what they would do in Italian. This rule was transformed into a story where two guys (the auxiliaries To Have and To Be) make advances to two girls (Past Participles), but only one of them, To Have, succeeds while the other, To Be, is left alone at a cafe.
The character(s) embodying the mistake can be part of the starting image or they can come into action later in the story. This means the conflict can be hinted from the beginning or it can appear only in the middle of the story, then becoming the center of the action.
5	Future Research
A first exploratory experimentation was run in June 2017: 25 students in their second year of high school (15-16 years old) were taught the proposed process and asked to apply it to produce a short video. The experience aimed to verify if this narrativization process was clear and sound enough to be understood and correctly implemented by people with an average cultural level yet not particularly expert in narrativization. The results were encouraging: all students were able to apply the process and to create a story version of an assigned grammar rule. In a final questionnaire administered to check their opinion on the activity, 92% of the students said they understood the process of visualizing the rule to create the landing image, and 84% reported that they understood well how the narrativization process worked and was to be applied. These answers appear particularly satisfactory if we consider that creating a story embodying abstract knowledge is neither a straightforward nor an intuitive task but one that requires abstraction skills and metalinguistic reflection. 
The results of this preliminary experiment mark a point in favour of the possibility to effectively implement the proposed process in a variety of learning environments and situations, and also possibly use it as the starting point for the construction of automated procedures. However, these initial results are not sufficient and further testing in diverse learning situations is needed to verify the process’ soundness, and also to evaluate its impact on a cognitive level. Since the proposed process is intended as a first step towards a meaningful narrativization of any abstract content, if it will prove valid to work on grammar rules its application could be extended and adapted to other knowledge areas dealing with abstraction.
The proposed process is a first step towards a representation of knowledge that could lead to a wider application of a narrative approach in diverse subjects and fields, and might constitute a basis for automating the representation of abstract content in narrative form. This would constitute a much needed addition to make the delivery of any types of information more satisfactory, since narrative has been proven to be beneficial for learning on both the cognitive and motivational/emotional levels. [21, 22] 

Acknowledgments. I would like to show my gratitude to Giuliana Dettori for her mentorship and help during the writing of this paper. I would also like to thank the three anonymous reviewers for their precious insights. I am also grateful to Daniel Levin who took the time to correct the text. 


References

Balboni P (2002) Le sfide di Babele. Utet, Torino
Bruner J (1990) Acts of Meaning. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA 
Bruner J (2003) Making stories: law, literature, life. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA 
Burton L (1999) The implications of a narrative approach to the learning of mathematics. In: Burton L (ed) Learning Mathematics: from hierarchies to networks. Garland Inc, New York, NY, pp 21-35.
Carey B (2015) How we learn: the surprising truth about when, where and why it happens. Random House, New York, NY. Page 9.
Daloiso M (2009) I fondamenti neuropsicologici dell’educazione linguistica. Libreria Editrice Cafoscarina, Venezia 
Dettori G, Paiva A (2009) Narrative learning in technology-enhanced environments. In: Ludvigsen S, Balacheff N, De Jong T, Lazonder A, Barnes S (eds) Technology-enhanced learning: principles and products. Springer, Berlin, pp 55-69.
Foer J (2011) Moonwalking with Einstein: the art and science of remembering everything. The Penguin Press, New York, NY
Haven K (2007) Story proof: the science behind the startling power of story. Libraries Unlimited, Westport, CT
Hoorn JF (1997) Metaphor and the brain: behavioral and psychological research into literary metaphor processing. Thesis Vrije Universitet.
Mandler J, Johnson N (1977) Remembrance of things parsed: story structure and recall”. In: Cognitive Psychology, 9, pp 111-151.
Mandler J (1984) Stories, scripts, and senses: aspects of schema theory. Lawrence Erlbaum, Hillsdale, NJ
Odangiu F (2017) The actor in the storytelling school. In: Dramatica: Studia Universitatis Babes-Bolyai. Thematic issue: Narrative Structures in Contemporary Performing Arts. Vol 62 (LXII) 2017, March 1,  pp 23-34. http://studia.ubbcluj.ro/download/pdf/1078.pdf
Porter Abbott H (2002) The Cambridge introduction to narrative. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Schank R (1990) Tell me a story: narrative and intelligence. Northwestern University Press, Evanston, IL
Schumann J, Crowell S, Jones N, Lee N, Schucter SA, Wood LA (2004) The neurobiology of learning: perspectives from second language acquisition. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah, NJ
Solomon Y, O’Neill J (1998) Mathematics and narrative. In: Language and education. 1998, vol 12, issue 3, pp 210-221. 
Spinozzi P, Hurwitz B (eds) (2011) Discourses and narrations in the biosciences. V&R Unipress, Gottingen
Swan M, Smith B (eds) (2001) Learner english (2nd Edition) A teacher’s guide to interference and other problems (Cambridge Handbooks for Language Teachers). Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Tornitore T (2014) Della Narratologia. Genova University Press, Genova
Dettori G, Giannetti T, Paiva A, Vaz A (eds.) (2006) Technology-Mediated Narrative Environments for Learning. Sense Publishers, Rotterdam-Taipei
Dettori G, Morselli F (2008) Accessing knowledge through narrative context. In: Kendall M, Samways B (eds) Proc. IFIP: Learning to Live in the Knowledge Society, vol.281, pp. 253-260, Springer.


